The loading controller is not everything,
I also want to tweak the way we can book an event. Right now of course, we're not really doing booking
but in the place detail page, at least we are opening that modal through the modal controller.
Now that's nice, it's another controller, we're in controller mood here anyways
but the modal controller is not the only thing I want to show in this component here.
Instead I want to introduce the actionsheet controller, an actionsheet is basically a set of options
that slides up from the bottom of the page. To use it in the place detail page,
I'll inject my actionsheet controller which is of type actionsheet controller and unsurprisingly, the
actionsheet controller here is imported from @ionic/angular up here and with the actionsheet controller
injected,
I want to open my actionsheet when onBookPlace is triggered, so when this book place button here is pressed
on the place detail page. So I'll not open the modal right away, instead I'll use the actionsheet controller
and create a new actionsheet.
Now on that actionsheet, you can set a bunch of options,
for example a header which will be choose an action and you can of course choose any header you want
and then it's mostly about the buttons you add. You add multiple buttons here and every button can be
a Javascript object where you can configure it in detail,
for example you can set its text and I want to make my places bookable by letting the users select
their own dates inside of the modal which will open up or by giving them a randomly generated timespan,
so with some starting and ending date which is randomly generated. And therefore one option here will
be select date and the other button,
so the second button I'll add here will have a text of a random date. Now last but not least, I also want
to have a cancel button in case I pressed that book button accidentally or I simply want to cancel,
so here the text will be cancel.
Now of course right now we would have three buttons and these buttons wouldn't do much and therefore
you can for one assign a role,
for example here on the cancel button, you can set role and now role can be set to cancel or destructive.
Now destructive will basically color the button red and you should use that option on options where you
will delete something and you'll have to write the logic for deleting it on your own and I'll show you
how to attach your own logic to a button in a second but basically this colors the button red. Now cancelling
on the other hand, so role cancel will not color it red but this will always be the bottommost button
which makes sense because once you see the actionsheet, you will have seen that in other apps too and
it makes sense that the bottommost button which is the easiest one to reach with your fingers is the
one that allows you to cancel this operation. If you assign no role, it'll be a regular button in your
set of options and then, you can add a handler method which defines which code should run
once this gets pressed and here I'll assign anonymous functions in both cases.
Now in both cases, I actually want to open my modal through the modal controller. So therefore, I'll add
a new method here, openBookingModal and add a mode here which is let's say either select or random, so
this is just a Typescript,
should be a pipe symbol,
this is just a Typescript type assignment which means mode has to be a string but not any string,
it has to be exactly select or random. So I'm accepting two values for the mode string here and then here,
I'll simply console log mode and I then want to call this code here that uses the modal controller and
later we'll add logic to pass that mode into the modal,
obviously you already learned how it works
so feel free to do it right now already but we'll use that information in the modal later,
for now I'll just log the mode here and open my modal. Now here in the handler,
I can call this openBookingModal and here I'll pass select and for the other function here, I'll pass
random. So in both cases, I open the modal but I pass select or random based on which option was chosen
in the actionsheet.
Now as with all these controllers, calling create alone creates the element but doesn't show it,
so this also gives us a promise where in the function that is called inside of the then block, we get
our actionsheet element and on this actionsheet element, we can now call present to open it.
And now with all of that, let's have a look at the result and let's see what this gives us.
So let me login here,
wait for this and go to a place and click book
and this is the actionsheet on Android, cancelling closes it
and if I choose select date, the modal opens
and here you see select being output
and if I choose random date, the modal opens too
but here you saw random being output.
Now let me show you the same on an iPhone because there, the actionsheet
simply looks different,
reload, login and then here go to the booking page,
click book and it's a little bit cut off here at the bottom since it's too big.
Now we can see it,
so let's click book.
Here is the actionsheet, I can cancel and I can also select the date, open the modal or choose a random
date,
open the modal and you see the different outputs here on the right.
So this is the actionsheet,
also very useful
and of course there are some other controllers like toasts and so on and you should simply check the official
docs to learn about all components you have including all these controllers and whenever you see something
with controller, you know in an Ionic Angular app, you can inject it,
you can create it with the create method, you learned all about it here in the official docs and you can
then show it in your app.